README.md, before:

# Keenious Take Home Challenge

## PART 1 - Kubernetes and HELM

This repo creates high-quality helm charts that allows the Keenious services to communicate using a Kubernetes cluster.

## Deployment

This chart installs a various keenious deployments on a k8s cluster using helm.

### Setting up the Chart values in values.yaml

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the charts.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`image.pullPolicy` | Image pull policy | `IfNotPresent | Always`
`masterservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/master-search`
`mlinferenceservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/ml-infer`
`mlsearchservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/ml-search`
`keywordservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/keyword`
`textsearchservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/text-search`
`imageCredentials` | Values for pulling images from Azure Contianer Registry | ``
`imageCredentials.registry` | URL of image registry required for authentication | `https://keenioustakehome.azurecr.io`
`imageCredentials.username` | Username of user to authenticate  | `Azure Service principal ID`
`imageCredentials.password` | Password of user to authenticate  | `Azure Service principal password:`
`imageCredentials.email` | User email | `any email`
`service.type` | Node port to expose endpoints | `NodePort`
`service.port` | Service type | `8000`

### Installing the Chart

To install the chart with a namesapce, use

```console
helm install keenious keenious-challenge/ --namespace keenious --create-namespace

```

### Verify the helm deployment

```console
kubectl get deployments --namespace keenious
```

### Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `keenious` deployment:

```console
helm delete keenious --namespace keenious
```

NOTE: This does _not_ delete all resources created by the helm chart. Check for
secrets, the namespace, and ClusterRoles, etc to be remaining.

### Verify the Solution

```console
$ curl 192.168.64.3:32738/docs
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/swagger-ui-dist@3/swagger-ui.css">
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/img/favicon.png">
    <title>FastAPI - Swagger UI</title>
    </head>
    <body>
    <div id="swagger-ui">
    </div>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/swagger-ui-dist@3/swagger-ui-bundle.js"></script>
    <!-- `SwaggerUIBundle` is now available on the page -->
    <script>
    const ui = SwaggerUIBundle({
        url: '/openapi.json',
    oauth2RedirectUrl: window.location.origin + '/docs/oauth2-redirect',
        dom_id: '#swagger-ui',
        presets: [
        SwaggerUIBundle.presets.apis,
        SwaggerUIBundle.SwaggerUIStandalonePreset
        ],
        layout: "BaseLayout",
        deepLinking: true,
        showExtensions: true,
        showCommonExtensions: true
    })
    </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    %
```

```console
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "text": "This is a test query", "n_results": 40, "random_seed": 42 }' HOST_IP:<MASTER-NODEIP>/master-service/search
{"2021510395":0.5576037740027965,"1493939421":0.09130499047884139,"2024082073":0.237320640544452,"2017010756":0.20212778092545436,"2019561905":0.6643944618924286,"2034657245":0.597550428679728,"2151165161":0.8546315126845343,"2282206560":0.12188109945404664,"2026122807":0.3510942511862534,"2036462485":0.0935369562101464,"1892627350":0.1991459396461716,"2154816389":0.424940631028215,"2038592739":0.09201382235069021,"2164322495":0.18646604374080647,"560428265":0.5686770482076335,"947917320":0.4623156357607878,"2551968658":0.20031902626383744,"2560773895":0.5059492430783962,"2169625486":0.7506346797531278,"20583405":0.08287972651947638,"2025484036":0.746245910786141,"2173749593":0.6211326689153931,"2148643507":0.28528002598348134,"2018198967":0.16001443985081035,"2560250566":0.9409770472606851,"2027662184":0.28248362599335236,"2555381087":0.12493703099012667,"2170923568":0.12704515342966463,"2021284584":0.7976559376684098,"2024080816":0.5205923118574399,"2164573249":0.747835344009791,"2157872937":0.6566860567907287,"2288994830":0.45395983195134076,"156340658":0.9627089954013972,"1487372514":0.3153334978413632,"2014893994":0.4691773298769605,"2021116159":0.775135858871937,"2147608847":0.5357806993913378,"2029191562":0.8155696515174818,"23861248":0.4940359837366162}%
```

## PART 2 - System Design Discussion

### System Architecture Design

#### A high-level system architecture

![alt text](Architecture.png?raw=true "Architecture")

#### What potential issues might such a system run into? What would your approach be to solve those issues

* Cluster failures are common so backing up the cluster is very important. Cluster failures can happen due to insufficient cluster resources, persistent volumes or container images failing.

* The Core Engine can exceed on CPU/Memory Limits due of huge traffic of data.

* If implementing MLOps, the automation of MLOPs(CI/CD) can be complex for the first time.

#### How would we integrate logging and monitoring to keep track of the system's health and usage

* Collecting metrics using DaemonSets: This method consists of running metric-collection, called an agent(Fluentd) as a pod called a DaemonSet. DaemonSets ensure that every node in the cluster has a copy of the DaemonSet pod. The DaemonSet makes sure one Pod with the agent is running on each Kubernetes node.
With a DaemonSet we can deploy an agent that monitors each node, and all the resources on that node, across the whole Kubernetes cluster.

* Kubernetes Monitoring Tools: EFK Stack - The EFK Stack is combination of three tools that work well together: Elasticsearch, Fluentd and Kibana.
Other tools that can be used are Prometheus and Grafana.

#### How would you help them implement an A/B test of the old and new system

* There are different deployment statergies that we can use.
* Blue/Green: Release a new version alongside the old version then switch traffic.
* Canary: Release a new version to a subset of users, then proceed to a full rollout.
    It can be beneficial to implement an A/B test using a Kubernetes canary deployment. The canary deployment is where an experimental version(new) of code runs alongside a production version(old).
* A/B testing: Release the experimental version to a subset of users.
  A/B testing doesn’t come out of the box with Kubernetes, we need to set up A/B testing infrastructure with tools such as Istio or HAPROXY.

* Apart from implementing A/B testing using a Kubernetes canary deployment, I would like to implement A/B testing using machine learning.
We can get insights from old and new system services based on interaction and results. We could use this to train a ML Model that will give use best insights on which system to use.

#### How would you help integrate best practices for model versioning for this system to ensure that we always use the correct model with each implementation of the system

* Using Kubernetes metrics, we can monitor how a specific pod and its deployment are being handled by the orchestrator. For our case, we can monitor how the on-progress deployment is going like how many instances are changed from an older version to a new one, health checks, and some network data available through network services.

* We can use Helm charts for this purpose for our deployment. For new version of model images:

```console
metadata:
  labels:
     version: {{ .Values.tag}}

For Image as this:
spec:
  containers:
    - image: dockerRepository/imageTag:{{ .Values.tag }}

Then in Values.yml, we need to provide values like:
tag: <your value>

Everytime we need to update the tag with Image version, we can simple update the tag in values.yml and run:
helm upgrade --set tag=<your value> <name of your deployment> ./<name of your chart>
```

* Some useful commands to set the update model to rolling update. Update the resources using kubectl set and kubectl rollout command

```console
kubectl rollout history `deployment` 
kubectl rollout undo `deployment` # Rollback to the previous deployment
kubectl rollout undo `deployment` --to-revision=2 # Rollback to a specific revision
kubectl rollout status `deployment`
kubectl rollout restart `deployment`
```

#### How would you automate process of MLOps model deployment

* MLOps is actually a great practise. We need to develop automated pipelined that can manage data pipelines and models. The process should start with data versioning combined with data pipelining, which will result in data lineage and ends with deploying machine learning models.

* We can tools to automate MLOps pipeline.
MLFLOW:
Through MLflow, the optimal model can be selected with greater ease using a tracking server. Parameters, attributes, and performance metrics can all be logged to this server and can then be used to quickly quarry for models that fit particular criteria.
KUBEFLOW:
Kubeflow is a machine learning platform that manages deployments of ML workflows on Kubernetes. Kubeflow is best for developers who wish to build and experiment with their data pipelines. It is also great for deploying machine learning systems to different environments in order to carry out testing, development, and production-level service.

Commit message:

Update README and add logging architecture

README.md, after:

# Keenious Take Home Challenge

## PART 1 - Kubernetes and HELM

This repo creates high-quality helm charts that allows the Keenious services to communicate using a Kubernetes cluster.

## Deployment

This chart installs a various keenious deployments on a k8s cluster using helm.

### Setting up the Chart values in values.yaml

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the charts.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`image.pullPolicy` | Image pull policy | `IfNotPresent | Always`
`masterservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/master-search`
`mlinferenceservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/ml-infer`
`mlsearchservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/ml-search`
`keywordservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/keyword`
`textsearchservice.image.repository` | Image repository | `keenioustakehome.azurecr.io/devops/text-search`
`imageCredentials` | Values for pulling images from Azure Contianer Registry | ``
`imageCredentials.registry` | URL of image registry required for authentication | `https://keenioustakehome.azurecr.io`
`imageCredentials.username` | Username of user to authenticate  | `Azure Service principal ID`
`imageCredentials.password` | Password of user to authenticate  | `Azure Service principal password:`
`imageCredentials.email` | User email | `any email`
`service.type` | Node port to expose endpoints | `NodePort`
`service.port` | Service type | `8000`

### Installing the Chart

To install the chart with a namesapce, use

```console
helm install keenious keenious-challenge/ --namespace keenious --create-namespace

```

### Verify the helm deployment

```console
kubectl get deployments --namespace keenious
```

### Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `keenious` deployment:

```console
helm delete keenious --namespace keenious
```

NOTE: This does _not_ delete all resources created by the helm chart. Check for
secrets, the namespace, and ClusterRoles, etc to be remaining.

### Verify the Solution

```console
$ curl 192.168.64.3:32738/docs
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/swagger-ui-dist@3/swagger-ui.css">
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/img/favicon.png">
    <title>FastAPI - Swagger UI</title>
    </head>
    <body>
    <div id="swagger-ui">
    </div>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/swagger-ui-dist@3/swagger-ui-bundle.js"></script>
    <!-- `SwaggerUIBundle` is now available on the page -->
    <script>
    const ui = SwaggerUIBundle({
        url: '/openapi.json',
    oauth2RedirectUrl: window.location.origin + '/docs/oauth2-redirect',
        dom_id: '#swagger-ui',
        presets: [
        SwaggerUIBundle.presets.apis,
        SwaggerUIBundle.SwaggerUIStandalonePreset
        ],
        layout: "BaseLayout",
        deepLinking: true,
        showExtensions: true,
        showCommonExtensions: true
    })
    </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    %
```

```console
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "text": "This is a test query", "n_results": 40, "random_seed": 42 }' HOST_IP:<MASTER-NODEIP>/master-service/search
{"2021510395":0.5576037740027965,"1493939421":0.09130499047884139,"2024082073":0.237320640544452,"2017010756":0.20212778092545436,"2019561905":0.6643944618924286,"2034657245":0.597550428679728,"2151165161":0.8546315126845343,"2282206560":0.12188109945404664,"2026122807":0.3510942511862534,"2036462485":0.0935369562101464,"1892627350":0.1991459396461716,"2154816389":0.424940631028215,"2038592739":0.09201382235069021,"2164322495":0.18646604374080647,"560428265":0.5686770482076335,"947917320":0.4623156357607878,"2551968658":0.20031902626383744,"2560773895":0.5059492430783962,"2169625486":0.7506346797531278,"20583405":0.08287972651947638,"2025484036":0.746245910786141,"2173749593":0.6211326689153931,"2148643507":0.28528002598348134,"2018198967":0.16001443985081035,"2560250566":0.9409770472606851,"2027662184":0.28248362599335236,"2555381087":0.12493703099012667,"2170923568":0.12704515342966463,"2021284584":0.7976559376684098,"2024080816":0.5205923118574399,"2164573249":0.747835344009791,"2157872937":0.6566860567907287,"2288994830":0.45395983195134076,"156340658":0.9627089954013972,"1487372514":0.3153334978413632,"2014893994":0.4691773298769605,"2021116159":0.775135858871937,"2147608847":0.5357806993913378,"2029191562":0.8155696515174818,"23861248":0.4940359837366162}%
```

## CLUSTER LEVEL LOGGING

We can implement cluster level logging using EFK Stack: Elasticsearch, Fluentd and Kibana.

### Cluster Logging Architecture

![alt text](Logging_Architecture.png?raw=true "Logging Architecture")

### Approch

* In this approach, we deploy a node-level logging agent on each node of the cluster. This agent is usually a container with access to log files of all application containers running on that node. For our case, we will deploy a Fluentd logging agent on each node.
* The easiest way to do is to create a deployement called DaemonSet. The DaemonSet controller will make sure that for every node running in your cluster you have a copy of the logging agent pod.
* We can make use of Saas services like Logz.io for this implementation.

## PART 2 - System Design Discussion

### System Architecture Design

#### A high-level system architecture

![alt text](Architecture.png?raw=true "System Architecture")

#### What potential issues might such a system run into? What would your approach be to solve those issues

* Cluster failures are common so backing up the cluster is very important. Cluster failures can happen due to insufficient cluster resources, persistent volumes or container images failing.

* The Core Engine can exceed on CPU/Memory Limits due of huge traffic of data.

* If implementing MLOps, the automation of MLOPs(CI/CD) can be complex for the first time.

#### How would we integrate logging and monitoring to keep track of the system's health and usage

* Collecting metrics using DaemonSets: This method consists of running metric-collection, called an agent(Fluentd) as a pod called a DaemonSet. DaemonSets ensure that every node in the cluster has a copy of the DaemonSet pod. The DaemonSet makes sure one Pod with the agent is running on each Kubernetes node.
With a DaemonSet we can deploy an agent that monitors each node, and all the resources on that node, across the whole Kubernetes cluster.

* Kubernetes Monitoring Tools: EFK Stack - The EFK Stack is combination of three tools that work well together: Elasticsearch, Fluentd and Kibana.
Other tools that can be used are Prometheus and Grafana.

#### How would you help them implement an A/B test of the old and new system

* There are different deployment statergies that we can use.
* Blue/Green: Release a new version alongside the old version then switch traffic.
* Canary: Release a new version to a subset of users, then proceed to a full rollout.
    It can be beneficial to implement an A/B test using a Kubernetes canary deployment. The canary deployment is where an experimental version(new) of code runs alongside a production version(old).
* A/B testing: Release the experimental version to a subset of users.
  A/B testing doesn’t come out of the box with Kubernetes, we need to set up A/B testing infrastructure with tools such as Istio or HAPROXY.

* Apart from implementing A/B testing using a Kubernetes canary deployment, I would like to implement A/B testing using machine learning.
We can get insights from old and new system services based on interaction and results. We could use this to train a ML Model that will give use best insights on which system to use.

#### How would you help integrate best practices for model versioning for this system to ensure that we always use the correct model with each implementation of the system

* Using Kubernetes metrics, we can monitor how a specific pod and its deployment are being handled by the orchestrator. For our case, we can monitor how the on-progress deployment is going like how many instances are changed from an older version to a new one, health checks, and some network data available through network services.

* We can use Helm charts for this purpose for our deployment. For new version of model images:

```console
metadata:
  labels:
     version: {{ .Values.tag}}

For Image as this:
spec:
  containers:
    - image: dockerRepository/imageTag:{{ .Values.tag }}

Then in Values.yml, we need to provide values like:
tag: <your value>

Everytime we need to update the tag with Image version, we can simple update the tag in values.yml and run:
helm upgrade --set tag=<your value> <name of your deployment> ./<name of your chart>
```

* Some useful commands to set the update model to rolling update. Update the resources using kubectl set and kubectl rollout command

```console
kubectl rollout history `deployment` 
kubectl rollout undo `deployment` # Rollback to the previous deployment
kubectl rollout undo `deployment` --to-revision=2 # Rollback to a specific revision
kubectl rollout status `deployment`
kubectl rollout restart `deployment`
```

#### How would you automate process of MLOps model deployment

* MLOps is actually a great practise. We need to develop automated pipelined that can manage data pipelines and models. The process should start with data versioning combined with data pipelining, which will result in data lineage and ends with deploying machine learning models.

* We can tools to automate MLOps pipeline.
MLFLOW:
Through MLflow, the optimal model can be selected with greater ease using a tracking server. Parameters, attributes, and performance metrics can all be logged to this server and can then be used to quickly quarry for models that fit particular criteria.
KUBEFLOW:
Kubeflow is a machine learning platform that manages deployments of ML workflows on Kubernetes. Kubeflow is best for developers who wish to build and experiment with their data pipelines. It is also great for deploying machine learning systems to different environments in order to carry out testing, development, and production-level service.
